You don't play music.
Okay.
The Joe Rogan experience.
Try my day.
Joe Rogan podcast by night,
all day.
All the way from how many miles above the arctic circle.
Uh,
they are saying it's 197 miles north of the Arctic circle.
I see.
It's a few more God.
So somewhere around 200 miles.
Yeah.
Jesus fucking Christ.
What,
what led you folks who are just tuning in right now?
Sue Akins from life below zero a which is one of my favorite shows.
I love that show.
It's the realest at all those shows.
It seems to be the realist.
There's so many of these shows that they'll do like the subsistence living
shows,
but you know that they're setting up fake scenarios.
You know,
that there's some producer fuckery and
oh yeah.
There,
there are some things that some shows out there that are,
um,
I would say very heavily scripted.
Yeah.
You know,
you're,
you're told what you're going to be doing,
not,
but this show,
uh,
and it's a,
it's one of my things in my contract.
I don't do script at anything.
I never want to hear how,
oh,
wouldn't that look great if you fell through the river?
Cause I'll be like junk.
Luggers see how it feels.
I'm not doing it.
You know,
there's enough interesting stuff that happens naturally that you don't have to
script a lot of action.
Yeah,
I would imagine.
I mean,
where you're living is one of the most bizarre remote places on Earth for folks
who have never seen this show.
Uh,
it follows a series of people that live in some pretty incredibly remote
locations in Alaska.
But you are the most Ramon,
you're the gangster.
The gangster.
Yeah.
I'm the queen of the bad ass.
Are you,
when it comes to remote,
you know,
my closest city,
uh,
where you could find a Walmart is 500 miles south.
And uh,
when you take a plane from Fairbanks to camp,
once you hit the air,
that's it.
You don't see another building until you get to my camp.
What led you the spot?
Even when I,
you know,
I say in,
in preschool and kindergarten in the early to mid sixties,
when they ask you what do you want to be when you grow up,
you know,
for a girl at that time period,
it was pretty standard,
you know,
wife and mother.
For me it was a light housekeeper.
I've always craved extreme isolation.
This is just an extension of that.
Why,
what,
um,
what's the attraction?
I,
I'm really happy.
I like myself.
I crack myself up all the time.
Um,
I'm really comfortable in my own skin.
I like challenges.
If it's,
if there's no challenge in the way that you're living,
you're not really living,
you're just kind of beer.
Do you want a script?
So it's just this attraction to isolation is almost like a natural part of your
personality.
It is.
Um,
I,
I really bond with the animals around me.
Uh,
you know,
and I,
I don't feel that just because it's brown,
it has to go down.
I do hunt for the meat that I eat,
but,
you know,
I find where else are you going to go?
My main packable sales 22 in it,
they're not always out to eat me.
So I get to see some pretty amazing things.
Uh,
two,
three winters in a row,
you always have a couple of bears at wake up out of season.
They either didn't store enough fat,
they woke up for some reason,
but once they wake up,
they're straight up killers.
And the past couple of years I've been able to watch a pack of wolves stake down
at grizzly.
Whoa.
And you know,
like this last year,
they just have to get them running.
Cause within a mile or two he's used up all of his calories and there's no way
he's going to survive.
And so when they came running through camp,
crashing into my building as they go,
I'm sitting there on the inside,
you know,
with my gun going,
yeah,
come through the wall fucker,
I'll get you.
You know,
but not until they do.
And they went right past and boom,
they took them down on the end of the airstrip and ate them.
So those are things that I get to experience that
for an adrenaline junkie,
somebody that's always pushing the limits,
that's,
that's pretty spooked them.
That's pretty good.
What,
what was that like?
God had to be insane watching a pack of wolves to take out a,
yeah,
and well,
it is because you know it comes at the time of the year when I have 24 hour
darkness,
so I only have a limited amount of space where I can see them and then it's
gone.
I don't know if they're going to come around and come back inside.
I don't know if they finished it.
I don't know if there's a couple of rogue goals waiting for me to come out.
So you're,
your own existence then becomes quite limited to inside until you know that it's
clear.
Yeah.
What a fascinating way to live life.
Yeah,
24 hour darkness too.
I did that.
I don't even think of it.
Yeah.
Well,
my son is going to set a for the last time this next week and in barrel and
prude obey,
they get a little bit more sunshine just because,
or in a few more sunsets just because of their location.
They're not around mountains or hills.
I've got a mountain to the north,
the south and a mountain range to the east,
so I lose it a couple of weeks before they do and then I won't have another
sunrise until March.
Wow.
So so did you,
you saw these wolves,
are,
you heard them chase down the bear?
Like how do you know what took place?
Did you put a spotlight on it?
You get a little bit during this particular time frame that it happened.
You get a little bit of ambient light.
You don't actually have the sun,
but your sky will lighten a little bit.
And even when the moon is out,
it lights up.
It's an all white landscape.
It lights it up.
And I routinely,
even in winter,
as long as it's not blowing a gale,
I go up on my rooftops and I'm always looking around.
You always want to give yourself as much advanced notice on anything coming in.
It could be a food source for me,
it could be a a predator,
it doesn't matter.
I want to know what's around me.
And that's where I saw something going on there and I saw a big red splotch or
what I assumed was red.
And so I know something was bleeding,
something was attacking something and then I could make out as it got closer,
that was a bear running and the wolf pack was in the river and down there's 22
wolves and they just tag them to keep them running.
Once he wears out,
they've got them.
Wow.
They're so clever.
Um,
they are their top predators and their top predators for a reason and they live
in that.
They genetically are predisposed to succeed.
So you know,
for me as a human being being there,
you know,
I've got guns,
I've got other things.
But you know,
left to your own devices.
I mean we are nowhere near top Predator
and they are the only predators that are that size,
that act in a pack.
Yes.
Yeah.
They think together,
they chase people in [inaudible]
following chase animals into a phone or a hierarchy.
You know,
you have the Alphas who controlled the whole thing.
Um,
they control who's gonna mate,
who's not going to mate.
And if you,
if you go against the rules,
you're kicked out of the pack.
So then you have rogue wolves and a,
so you got your solitary units.
Wow.
And you're living in these,
these houses,
the you're living and they seem like they're made out of like cloth or
something.
They are,
they're a quonset tents now for,
for clients.
In order for me to be there as a Caucasian,
I'm not allowed to own property on the north slope.
So for me to have a lifestyle there,
I have to lease land from the state and have a profitable business.
If the business stops being profitable,
they have the right to eject me.
So there's,
you know,
and people say,
oh,
it's reverse discrimination and you have to stop right there.
There is no forward or reverse.
It is a fact.
I knew that going in.
And um,
so it's a challenge.
It just becomes a challenge.
So I,
I,
the clients can stay in the trailers.
There's a bear proof,
soundproof trailers,
they can stand.
Now if I stay in that,
it's a very small amount of head space for me.
I don't like that the door is open to the outside world.
You,
you have to get your life down to all of the doors.
My final door going to the outside world opens inside because I Guarantee 15,
20 times a winter,
I'm going to open that door and it's a wall of snow.
I have to dig a tunnel so I can get out and open the,
you know,
have,
uh,
an an open space.
And if I had a door that opened to the outside world,
I wouldn't get out.
So I've trapped myself.
But,
uh,
the tent that I live in,
um,
I'm not allowed a permanent structure.
So I have a tent.
And so not allowed a permanent structure?
No,
because I'm leasing the land and you have to,
everything has to be mobile in case they,
for whatever reason,
tell you your lease is up.
You need to leave.
So everything either is on tracks or it's a tent that you can take down or
something you're willing to throw a match on and burn.
You're not allowed to have a permanent structure.
That's a strange set of rules,
isn't it?
I mean,
it seems like no houses permanent.
They've knocked down houses all the time.
And the,
even the term permanent is kind of weird.
Yeah.
But Alaska still,
I mean if you want to break it down,
I mean we still have squatters rights.
We still have,
you know,
if you,
if you're allowed permanent structures then perhaps you're allowing a squatters
rights situation to,
to develop.
I don't really care about the background rules,
I just,
just tell me what the rules are and I'll meet the challenge.
Wow.
And so you're in these tents,
how easy would it be for an animal?
Get into the tent?
One Swipe.
It's just a,
you know,
figure you're a Coleman tent,
maybe a little bit thicker material and that's it.
So any,
well,
it's like the bear that I got this last year that,
um,
the background of that my dog was outside in her house and the bear came up,
tore her little house out,
hockey,
puck it around the pad,
tried to eat her,
chased after some kids that were camping.
So it became after the bear attack that I had a few years ago,
um,
there was a certain fear factor.
I did not aggressively go get bears.
I waited,
hey,
if you come through my wall,
I'll take care of you,
but I'm not.
And you know,
there was a fear factor.
Well,
now as an owner,
I can't afford to be passive.
This bear PR presented a danger to my dog,
but also more importantly to clients camping.
So I had to go proactive and uh,
it was 16 and a half hours of tracking,
um,
belly crawling over 800 yards.
And then I coughed and he turned on me.
Well,
the,
the long and short of that story was,
um,
I just got the hide back.
Now his claws are five and a half inches long.
So one swipe and it's done five and a half inches long.
Yeah.
And he's almost nine foot.
Wow.
So,
and as measurements,
he,
uh,
from what I understand,
he's number five in the world for inland grizzly and people wanted me to,
you know,
there was a push to do the Boone and Crockett thing and I'm like,
number five,
you know,
if he's the one or two,
I'll do it,
you know,
a number five still pretty damn impressive.
Yeah.
He,
he,
he wasn't impressive specimen.
He was over 34 years old.
So,
you know,
I mean,
this,
this was a bear that was probably getting closer to the end of a shelf life and
was going to attack anything.
When they get ready to den,
it's,
it's almost,
um,
a certain insanity that they reach where,
you know,
they,
they're going into hibernation and all's they think is,
I've got to eat.
I've got to get fat.
I've got to eat,
If you are,
you know,
I always say,
don't act like a pork chop.
If you're acting like a pork chop your in their sites.
So you were attacked by a bear.
Yep.
And was that in a camp that was at Kavach.
Um,
and I,
and I don't talk a whole lot about it.
I mean,
people always ask about,
yeah,
you know,
I try to talk about it in the third person.
I get my water from the Catholic river and at a certain point the water's gonna
freeze over while I had one more shot at getting some water.
So I went down and when I have to do is get a pump,
both hands have to be used to get it in the river and start it up.
And I had a juvenile bear that had been,
every night he'd come and he'd go to my helicopter pad,
dig it up,
barriers,
food,
and run off.
I could see where he was going and where he was coming from.
And when a bear does that,
he's trying to claim your territory as a juvenile bear between three and seven
years old.
You know,
he's not hot enough.
The chicks don't want him.
He's not alpha enough.
He's not kicking any other bears.
But,
but I have this prime territory.
At no matter how careful I am,
it always smells like food.
It has cooled then as you don't have to dig,
it's a prime place.
And so it's an Alpha pushy.
The first step on the Alpha ladder is subjugate something and take over their
territory.
And so I'm the long and short.
I was getting my water.
I sat down my rifle and he was hiding in the cut bank and snatched me up and
you know,
he,
he rolls with you.
He'll open his draws,
put it on your throat,
you can still feel here in here where I ended up having a soul,
my head together,
um,
the door,
the hips out of the sockets,
and then he ended up going back in the river.
And older bear or a female would have just eaten me and,
and that's,
you know,
an an eye except that in my lifestyle,
um,
I knew I was injured,
did not remember I had a rifle by the river,
got myself back to camp.
I knew my hips weren't in good shape and he was going to come back and finish
the job.
What he did was kicked me out of my property than I am lower than he is on the
totem pole and he has my territory.
So I got my gun belt,
ratcheted it on the hips,
tried.
I remember calling one person.
I was told I called more than one person for help.
Um,
the troopers,
I got the answering machine because they're out doing other things.
And,
uh,
I called some other people.
I didn't,
I don't remember that I tried to get ahold of the oil companies to say I'd been
attacked and they did not help.
Um,
but I went back,
got a rifle,
found where the bear was shot him.
GPS didn't,
I don't know why I did that,
but it was important at the time.
And then the hips gave out on the way back over.
So I drug myself to the camp and,
uh,
I laid there 10 days until somebody found me.
Whoa.
So Day.
Yeah.
And it's a memory.
I don't,
I mean at that,
that's going to be with me forever.
Um,
I had an ob flown out once.
I was found,
they flew me to Fairbank's,
then they flew me to the lower world for immediate surgery and my kids did get
to see me in that shape and that was hard on them.
And too,
now that definitely brought it into perspective that I may be the first in the
family to go.
And so they had to deal with that.
You,
did you have any thoughts of abandoning that lifestyle when that happened?
I,
you know,
it,
it became,
because I was working for the company that I later bought the camp from.
Um,
it was a workman's comp case.
Uh,
they put the hips in,
they had to do one twice and they took a couple of disks out and then the
insurance company said,
well,
we're not going to do any more work.
You've got to get a lawyer.
And I,
you know,
I'm like,
why?
I'm not arguing.
The company's not arguing either as a fucking Barry's dead.
And they said,
that's just the way it goes.
And my personality was,
well,
how about if you go to hell,
I'm going home.
So,
uh,
I called the owner,
he said,
yeah,
if you think you can do it.
And I said,
there's only one way I had to accept that there's 83 tag grizzlies within 10
miles of camp.
At any point they can decide to charge camp or come in aggressively.
Um,
it's only a matter of time before I do get charged again.
So that's my test.
When it happens,
how am I going to react if I hesitate at all?
I have no business being there.
I can't perform job it takes to be there.
But when it did happen,
I was able to,
I took care of the bear.
It was just automatic response so I knew I would be okay.
But you know,
there's,
how many injuries do you have?
A,
you know,
when your head stops being able to get in the game and take care of it.
And then that's when I have to leave.
You said that they had to take some disks out and I've got several discs
that out.
Um,
but of your back?
Yeah,
on the spine and a,
I still have more,
there's more work to do.
But as,
um,
you know,
not to diss the,
the Workman's compensation thing,
but it's,
it's really not set up to help the people that set up to help the insurance
companies.
So I've just gone without the medical attention and,
uh,
I know I can't twist and bend very often.
I know what some of my limits are and I try to work around it.
Well.
So do you have bulging discs or when you say disks when out?
Yeah,
bit out.
There's one that spit out a pretty hard,
I'm twisting into the right is not good.
I have to,
when I lift things,
I have to be careful because when the bear got me,
Eh,
um,
he's twisting and your body's just not meant to do that.
It's an outside force applying pressure and twisting.
It's not a good thing.
So,
but as with anything,
it's like for me,
I was later a couple of years later working on the overhead electrics and fell
straight down from 22 feet.
Bro broke both ankles and the bones in my right leg and a,
and that's where at the beginning of the episodes you see that I'm having
surgery and coming back to camp.
Um,
I've since had a few more things that I've had to look at.
You know,
you beat up your body so much and I'm not,
I'm not a spring chicken.
I mean I'm not the crypt keeper,
but you know,
I'm,
I'm going on 52 at some point my body's going to say,
bitch,
you want to do that?
Do it on your own cause I'm checking out.
You know,
so you,
you must,
if you're going to do this lifestyle,
you must always assess,
reassess,
and be extremely honest with who you are,
what your limitations are and how can you work within those.
It's just such a strange life to be drawn to,
not just to be isolated like that,
but to be isolated in is really vulnerable way.
We're in your intense,
it's so crazy.
It's not for everybody.
It's fuck yes.
I would imagine it's for like one of the smallest percentages of people on the
planet.
But you're very personable.
You're very friendly,
you're very smart.
So you,
you,
you're not like this fucking Ted Kaczynski Wacko living in the witness shining.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying?
It's like you seem like a person who enjoys being around people.
You know,
people assume that because I live alone,
I am antisocial or I'm running away from something and that's not the case.
You know,
I run to a lifestyle that I enjoy and I really enjoy being social,
but I like to know when it's going to start in,
when it's going to end.
I don't want to live extremely social,
but um,
I love engaging in it.
And then you know,
like a hit and run,
I know when to,
I know when to leave.
Right?
So you'll come into town,
hang out with people,
talk,
and they go,
okay,
you guys take care.
I'm just going to be by myself.
10.
Yeah.
Well,
and then you know,
you,
no matter where you live,
it's a good idea.
When you're in a social situation,
learn what's healthy for you and what's not.
There may be people that you are quote unquote friends with,
but they're,
they're toxic,
right?
I mean,
cut the toxicity out of your lifestyle and enjoy it.
Yeah,
without a doubt.
That's great advice.
But aren't bears fucking toxic?
His Shit to fairs are bears,
you know,
they don't wake up and say,
oh,
that's who I think I'm gonna knock her around today.
Right,
right.
I mean,
they,
they are animals and there's an instinct and there's a drive to survive.
And sometimes I get in their way and I'm in their sites.
I'm like this summer it,
the troopers even came by several times and said,
we need to know that you have an emergency plan.
This is going to be one of the worst aggressive bear seasons ever.
How the numbers,
because the numbers are so high.
Um,
you know,
as man decides it's going to like the Caribou herd size,
they count it and they go,
oh,
there's too many Caribou.
Let's up the amount that people can harvest.
Well,
when they do that and one from two a year to five a year,
um,
in the villages it's 10 a day.
Um,
so you're,
you're putting all these bones and gut piles out there while you're predators
are going to eat those.
And then their numbers are healthier,
they brew reproduce more.
And then all of a sudden,
like this year,
the Caribou migrate it out a full five,
six weeks early.
And so their main food group left the north slope.
So then you have all these bears roaming around and nothing to eat.
But here I am walking around like a little pork chop,
you know.
Um,
but the bears this year I had eight that were circling camp just religiously
every day.
But they never,
they never did anything.
They weren't dickheads.
You know,
they didn't come through the walls,
they didn't ran sack.
You know,
I'm very careful with garbage and everything else.
Whatever I have to have in camp,
it has to be flown in.
Well,
it's a protected ecosystem.
You can't just go bury your garbage or leave it in bags.
I,
um,
by law have to take all of the garbage and even human waste,
separate liquids and Solids,
burn everything to its lowest lowest ash,
bag it up and send it to town.
So you have to burn poop.
Yes.
That's hilarious.
Well,
only if you're not doing the job because I don't want him when I'm doing it.
I'm just saying,
do you have like a furnace?
Like I have a big incinerator.
Oh,
okay.
Yeah.
I mean it's not the greatest job on the planet,
but it's a job,
right?
Yeah.
No,
I mean I don't go cook food.
I'd afterwards I clean out.
Did you have a profitable business up there?
Like what,
what do you do up there?
Uh,
kavach used to be an old oil camp and uh,
now,
you know,
my goal is to,
I want to be the first 100% green camp in the middle of the oil fields.
So I've turned it into sort of a twisted Ben breakfast.
Um,
it's not a hotel like you'd find here where you have,
you know,
so many story building and these really cool rooms.
They are soundproof bear proof,
like a trailer on,
on tracks that you can stand and it gives you,
now that that's a measure of safety.
Um,
but I rent those rooms out.
If you want food,
I'll cook it for you.
It's always chef's menu,
you know,
you don't get a menu and get to pick from and it's whatever.
I feel like cooking that day.
Um,
but that's how I make money now for me to be there.
There's,
it's not inexpensive that the dollars that it takes for me to be there,
even to heat.
There is no wood.
I can't do wood heat.
Um,
so everything has to be oil.
So my interest in going,
you know,
I've got a certain amount of alternative energy now this winter I'm working on a
big project and hopefully by next year I'll be 100% green and not needing any
fuel.
So is it possible to be solar?
I mean when you say a hundred percent green,
um,
well I've already got some solar panels and wind turbine and,
but solar eight,
nine months of the year doesn't do me whole lot of good.
But so wind is the major one.
So I'm adding in new large scale wind turbines,
more solar.
I will always have to have a generator as a backup.
But like for example,
when I first got there working for the other company,
they used a 100 kw generator 24 hours a day every day.
And there's also a 150 kw.
Well that's going to be over a hundred gallons of fuel a day just for the
generator to provide electricity.
Wow.
And so,
you know,
the actual per day,
you're talking between one and 200 gallons a day.
I've got that down to six to 10 gallons a day.
So I've already made a huge stride in making it better.
And how have you done that?
Um,
I switched,
I changed all the electrics.
You know,
there used to be a theory in the oil fields because some of those companies have
a lot of money to spend.
If they don't spend their whole budget,
they don't get a new great big budget.
So,
uh,
there's a,
you know,
theory that you,
you don't need to be more efficient.
You obviously just need a bigger gender,
more power cords.
So everything,
every time you plug in a power cord,
you have what's called line loss.
You know,
and that's,
I guess one of the neatest things about the lifestyle I have is,
you know,
I wasn't born knowing how to do diesel mechanics.
And I tell people,
you know,
the only thing I used to know about it is how to bake bread.
In other words,
I hadn't,
I knew nothing but I'm learning and it's just like electricity.
I don't like electricity,
but I have to learn how to do it.
So you know,
you learn line loss.
If you plug in and keep plugging in extension cords,
you may have a hundred kw when you start and you only get 80 kw at your final
ending point because you've lost so much of it along the way.
So I improve the electrics,
did more direct wiring,
fell and hurt myself in the process,
but got back up and did it again.
Um,
learned wind power.
I have a big battery bank and I can store power and use it later.
That's a my entire Internet system that I put in a 12 years ago.
It runs off the battery bank.
When you say Internet system,
how's that work?
Uh,
back when I first got there,
um,
and I was working for the other company,
I said,
hey,
we got to get Internet.
Uh,
the analog phones,
Anil,
there's two types of signal for cell phone usage or foams.
You have an analog signal signal in a digital analog travels much further than a
digital.
Digital only goes 27 miles.
While I'm 83 and a half miles from dead horse,
no matter what I do,
I can't get it,
throw the signal again.
It's still not going to reach me while the government took away the analog
signal and privatized it for themselves.
So I knew you're going to have no communications other than a satellite phone,
which is horrendously expensive.
So,
uh,
I told the owner,
I said,
you need the Internet out here,
you know,
and he says,
yeah,
no,
at this point,
you know,
um,
technology where it was then the,
you have to get over the curvature of the earth to clip the satellites.
So he said,
if you want it,
you're going to pay for it.
Well,
all right,
there's a challenge.
It cost 8,000 bucks to get the dish,
fly it up,
get the tech.
And I worked with the geologists to find the bedrock and I bounced a signal off
the bedrock and I haven't lost signal yet.
Wow.
So you bounce a satellite signal off the catch it,
this is an off the bedrock rather than people that point at where they think the
satellites are going to go.
Like here,
I pointed directly down so as the signals are hitting the bedrock I killed.
I get it.
Okay.
Wow.
So it was a risk.
I didn't know how to calculate that.
I brought the geologist in.
I had an idea.
I'm great with ideas,
but I don't know if their bone had ideas or plausible.
Is anyone else doing something similar or is this just completely yours?
They may,
they may know nobody was then.
But you just came up with it on your own?
Yeah.
I knew what I wanted to do.
I know that basic mechanics of what needs to happen and,
and then I apply Su technology and come up with a suffix,
but I do check with people that are trained in that and they go,
yeah,
that might work well.
Okay,
it's worth eight grand for me to check it out.
And what kind of like download speeds do you get up there?
Can you like watch a youtube video?
I can haul.
Although a,
the way they saw the internet there is,
you know,
your bandwidth,
you get so many gigs or whatever of bandwidth.
When I use that up then it's really expensive,
prohibitively expensive.
But for me to go back to being juggled,
Jane,
I am a mother,
a grandmother,
um,
for me to do this.
You know,
I worked very closely with the kids.
Um,
we have a loving relationship,
but you know,
I like,
and having children too,
I mean,
you're dropping these little seeds and they've got to grow.
Well,
my personality can throw a pretty big shadow.
Not many plants grow in the shade.
I needed to step back so that they could get the sunshine.
But one of the turnarounds is,
is I need to know that I can communicate with people.
You can't run a business if nobody can tell you they want to show up.
So you know,
it to me,
it was the wave of the future.
I had to get it figured out and I've,
if the only thing standing in my way as money while I go out and make it,
that's such a strange contradiction.
Isolation,
but yet you want to come activity.
Yeah.
I need to know for myself that the kids and grandkids are okay.
And we have a system of talking to each other.
Social media.
I throw up 10 fingers,
10 toes know I'm okay.
Six fingers,
four toes.
They know there's a problem,
you know,
it's pretty basic.
And then they also,
we have a phrase and I won't say what it is,
but there is a key phrase.
And if the kids or grandkids ever say that to me,
that means drop what you're doing,
get here asap.
And how long does it take you to get the civilization?
Depends on the time of year to even come down here and do this.
Um,
I had a previous engagement in New York City.
I've been trying on last,
a week ago,
Monday,
I called and I said,
you need to pull me now.
We're going to get a bad storm.
And you know,
my original flight out was Saturday.
No,
what?
Oh,
we got days.
And I was like,
no,
you really don't.
We got a system coming in.
I need those weather days.
Well if you,
if somebody in the real world,
you know,
they need to get to the airport a little earlier because maybe it's bad traffic,
they're talking hours.
Well this is day.
Today is day 13 of this major blizzard up there.
And uh,
I just happened to have a window,
a three hour window where a plane could make it in three hour window.
Yeah.
And,
and we just hit it right and I got out.
The turnaround for me is when I get home,
I'm calculating that Saturday I'm going to have another window and I hope so
because that's my way to get back in right now.
You know,
I've got a wolverine that's just been acting like a real creep around camp.
I'm trying to get into things and so I don't know what he's doing while I'm not
there.
I can't afford to lose all my water and let everything frees up in my tent.
So my heat is still going.
If that animal gets into my building,
he's going to knock over my heater and burn my camp down.
I don't know till I get there what I'm dealing with.
That might be happening right now could be,
can you go to Google earth and look at your camp?
Um,
I suppose you could,
but you're going to get to a delayed picture.
I believe with Google Earth,
but I do have two webcams and I did check this morning.
Um,
it's not,
I can see the dining hall and to the east there actually for the pilots so they
can see the mountains and see where the sky is.
Um,
and then I try to update it as I can,
but uh,
I was able to see,
okay,
I still have a dining hall tits,
so GC this wolverine.
Ah,
you can't,
it's not a live feed on my webcam.
No.
Do you ever see,
oh,
I see him almost daily,
almost dead now.
You know,
like with me and the animals,
if I need the for,
I'll go ahead and get them.
Um,
right now for needing the fur,
it's only like,
I think it was five below zero.
I think five or 10 below zero is the coldest I've gotten so far this year.
Not Counting Windchill,
so it's not really cold enough for me.
Um,
if you're going for a fur bearer,
then get them on the first prime,
you know?
Um,
and as far as not prime and he's just being a wolverine,
he hasn't attacked me as a person.
He's tried to mango one of the buildings and I do what I can to dissuade him.
What'd he do?
Um,
wolverines if they've ever been injured or you've ever angered them or they've
ever gotten trumped on a hunt,
they'll remember that like a gps coordinate and they come back and they keep
trying to attack it.
Um,
like them,
I guess it's a challenge.
So for whatever reason,
this wolverine has picked one trailer as his nemesis and he goes and he ripped
the angle iron off and twist it into a little not,
so what I've done is I've tied a little piece of angle iron down there and he
takes that and keeps re tearing it up,
you know?
Um,
so as or later,
yeah,
that's for whatever reason,
that trailer pissed him off one year and I don't know why,
but,
uh,
and it may,
I can't afford to lose,
you know,
for me to try and replace it is an ungodly amount of money.
If he doesn't get with the program and leave,
then you know,
we're going to,
we're going to be like this and I have to deal with it.
But right now he can't help being a wolverine.
I can't help not wanting him to ruin my stuff.
So it's,
do you,
you enjoy having them around in a,
some sort of a strange way because it gives you something to think about.
I mean,
do you have like a connection with these animals
drama?
Well,
you know,
it's not,
you don't connect with a wolverine.
I mean,
you could,
I suppose seen senior show where there's some guy pat and them,
well that's not my gig.
Um,
but I don't think,
you know,
it'd be like somebody,
if there was a race of people that you know,
bigger than we are,
and they come in and I'm drinking my coffee and he tags my ass.
I mean,
that would be a bum day.
I don't see any reason to shoot on animals simply because it exists.
So what I can do is,
is hopefully I'll just keep dissuading him and he'll go,
wow,
she's crabby and she,
and he leaves or it'll come down to,
yeah,
I've got to take him out because he's now costing me revenue.
So he might start tearing up a different,
yeah,
he may or he's going to go in and,
you know,
tax a walls.
I mean,
I can only let it go so long,
but I'm willing to bet that if I keep,
you know,
he keeps trying to come in and I keep just waiting him sooner or later he's just
going to say,
wow,
whatever and leave.
But,
um,
I do,
I do enjoy the animals in their natural habitat.
I enjoy,
you know,
I've been able to see,
uh,
one of the moodiest grizzlies up there.
Um,
she's tagged and her name is Marty.
Well,
a couple of years ago,
and she is,
what,
38 years old or something like that now.
Or she was then,
um,
but she ended up popping out a couple of babies.
Now she's the worst mother in the planet,
you know,
she'll let them get two miles away from her.
And,
and which for a hiker,
it's real easy to get in the middle of a mama and cubs.
So I try to warn people,
but I was sitting up there on the roof,
a of my,
I call it the perch and I'm watching and hears,
I'm Marty crawling up the hillside and there's still a snowfield.
And she goes,
well,
and slides down here come the two cubs.
And they just all day long played and they were so loving.
So it's,
it's really,
you know,
it's a dichotomy.
I see the aggressive side,
but I also can appreciate the maternal natural side.
Yeah.
You knew you were dealing with it,
the same species that almost killed you.
You,
you're watching them play
well,
you know,
and,
and even to do the lifestyle at all.
And I don't care what part of the world,
if you're going to go this remote and,
and in immerse yourself in their territory,
you have to be comfortable,
your own death.
Not the same as having a death wish.
But I'm like with my kids and grandkids,
we do one big meal a year and whether it's over the Skype or whatever,
um,
I tell them,
tell me three things you can't stand about me.
What did I do that really pissed you off?
But tell me three good things.
And I do the same for them.
And it's,
you know,
we're just a very honest relationship.
I have,
I have accepted that I may die due to either conditions are animals out here and
I'm okay with that.
That's,
you know,
roll the dice I'm willing to accept,
but we each year tell each other,
I love you for this.
I think you're a Douche bag for that,
but you know what?
I am going to miss you when you go.
And you know,
over my life I have this big chest and I've been filling it all the cool crazy
things they've ever heard about me.
And some things are pretty,
I mean there's some things in my life,
even as a very young person that were really fantastic.
And so I take the photographs or the proof or whatever and I stuffed it in this
box.
So when I go they're going to be able to open that for the first time and see,
oh my God,
that really happened.
Oh Shit.
Look at that.
But it'll be a pretty cool chronicle
your light.
Do you find it really rewarding to be out in this incredibly wild environment?
Like when you come to a city,
like you go from that to New York City.
Is New York City just like a cool little vacation for you and then do you,
do you,
do you appreciate the wild or do you appreciate New York because of the wild or
both?
Does that make sense?
You know,
my lifestyle,
the challenges I face and overcoming that.
MMM.
There is such pride in yourself that oh my gosh,
I did that.
How cool is that?
Um,
in being so I was really little.
I mean,
I terrified of the dark,
but now I live in a place that's dark for nine months out of the year,
you know?
I mean,
there are always challenges.
Know yourself better yourself,
you know?
Um,
when I go to a city,
yeah,
a bear.
I know exactly what he wants from me,
you know,
pretty much he's either going to eat you or do you want something here?
I was just passing through,
but it's a pretty honest relationship.
He wants to eat me.
I don't want them to,
you go to a big city and I'm used to seeing my horizon.
I'm always checking things.
There's no trees,
there's no buildings.
There's nothing.
Tomorrow my horizon,
I go to New York and you can't go eight feet and you've got a 60 story building.
How the hell do you check your horizon?
How do you know what's coming at you?
You see people,
but you cannot be guaranteed.
When I see a bear and he's charging,
I know he wants to attack me.
You see a person walking down the street,
you don't know whether he's going to pull a gun out of his pocket,
shake your hand,
pinch your ass,
or wave goodbye.
You don't know.
So that's a Predator that,
uh,
I'm pretty impressed people want to be around.
And I,
when I got here,
I look at all these lights and all these people,
I'm like,
oh my God.
And they're here on purpose.
Wow.
Okay.
I always appreciate La when I leave
and go into the wilderness.
Whenever I go into the Wilderness,
I love being there like a couple times a year,
three,
three times a year I go hunting and when I come back,
I always really appreciate the city flush toilets are just like cool.
Oh yeah.
But just being warm and dry and sitting on a couch and watching TV.
Yeah.
There,
there is.
It is not saying that I've never lived in a social setting or a city.
I certainly have,
you know,
the kid's father,
biological father,
you know,
he tried to make it in Alaska and it wasn't the way I live in.
It wasn't his gig.
So you're married.
I went down there and tried to make it in the city.
That boy,
that one my Gig for very long.
We,
you know,
we were married 17 years and then one day we're laying in bed and he's cracking
up.
And I said,
what?
And he says,
it's real.
You know,
it's real simple.
You're more grizzly.
Adams.
I'm more John Wayne.
The shit ain't gonna work.
And so we stayed in the best of friends until he passed away.
But um,
we developed and that's part of me,
you know,
don't sit there and cry and be sad because it ended,
um,
where we were still best of friends and realized him,
you're John Wayne,
go get your horse gallop.
Boy,
I'm going to go over here and get a bear.
And A,
we made it or will you always live in like this?
Like what did,
what did,
how would you meet?
It might just be born in Chicago.
And,
uh,
at a very early age,
um,
my mom was leaving my dad and,
uh,
back then divorced,
it wasn't very popular,
but she left him,
brought us up to Alaska,
and then she left to go do her own thing.
So,
um,
very quickly I had to get used to living in a tent hunting.
And,
uh,
I finished school very early.
I graduated high school just before I turned 13.
Dean,
why'd you have to get used to living in a tent and hunting?
I don't get into that part of my life very much so.
Um,
because you know,
I love my mother to death.
I've never walked a mile in anybody's shoes,
let alone three feet.
So what made her decide to go from Chicago to Alaska and then leave us and to
our own devices and go to something else?
I don't know.
How old were you when this was going on?
Yo.
And um,
but she's still alive.
I've never held anything against during an all.
And that's the thing.
I mean when people,
they hold grudges on other people or they let it affect their lives.
You know,
how many people are in therapy?
We signed one,
oh it was turning.
This happened while fuck is 40 years ago.
Get over it.
You know,
I mean you have to move forward.
If you have one foot in the past and one in the future,
the only place you're not living is today.
Some people wallow.
They enjoy being upset.
They'd be in a drama Queens Fon,
I suppose you know for some people.
But you know,
it's not my style.
Obviously not
drama queens really wouldn't be back in Alaska after getting almost killed by a
bear.
Well you know,
are you going to then be real?
Is your life then going to be run by your fear?
And when,
where does it stop?
Fair is a desperate creature that grabs as much turf as it can get.
So once you start letting it run your life,
you better have a good [inaudible] bear sneakers cause you're going to be
running the rest of your life.
That's an excellent description.
There really is.
That's very,
very accurate.
He looking for the nicotine again?
Yeah,
I saw it.
Do you anticipate living there for the rest of your life or would you be
interested in a similarly sort of isolated but different environment?
Um,
or do you have a personal,
like I don't plan that far ahead.
I currently am enjoying the hell out of the challenges and thriving with what
I'm doing,
but I have kind of a raven personality.
There is going to be another shiny thing on the horizon and I'll be like
checking it out.
Um,
a lot of people don't know,
you know,
I've traveled a lot in my life.
I mean there are so many awesome things to see on the planet and I don't want to
die be sitting there in the grave,
my little soul lifting up and go,
fuck,
I wish I would've done that.
I want to be lifting it up saying God,
it nailed it,
you know?
Um,
so there will be other things that catch my eye.
My Body is getting older.
I've beat the hell out of it.
I'm probably not going to stop doing that when I can no longer function at
Kavach.
And make it safe for people,
then I don't have any business being there.
Um,
there's so much to see and do.
And is that how you've always run it?
You've rose running as sort of a bed and breakfast?
Um,
yeah.
The,
the company that has that owned it before.
I know a,
you know,
the person that used to own it,
the company,
um,
they were friends of mine and they came looking for me.
I used to have a 400 mile trap line along the Jim River and had a bunch of sled
dogs and that's how I live for a long time.
You go 400 miles up sending your trips or her miles down,
checking them all by herself.
Yeah.
And then I thought,
you know,
I did marry again,
that did not work out as well as I would've liked.
Uh,
but January another trapper.
Ah,
yeah,
he's somebody I knew when I was little and I ended up in Alaska.
He was gonna come up there and we used to joke around because he used to say,
I'm going to marry you.
And I'm like,
yeah,
I'm never getting married.
Sorry.
Sucker,
but on his way up,
he got to avalanches.
He turned around and married somebody else and I'm thinking,
well,
a real man would have made it,
but it ended up,
it was not a good thing.
Um,
he went a little bushy up there in Kavach and yeah,
where are you?
You lose your perspective,
you know?
Um,
when you're all alone,
there's no social,
there's nobody saying,
Ooh,
you can't wear like in the winter I wear my long Johns and jammy pants as long
Johns all winter long.
I try to gain 20 to 30 pounds minimum to go into winter because when I get stuck
at 50 below in a blizzard,
working hard,
I'm going to lose pounds every day.
I don't want to come out being unhealthy.
So I go in being a little junky.
Wow,
that's interesting.
So it's a strategy.
What do you eat to ensure that whatever.
I want to see a lot of cake and pie and you know,
my body,
if you listen to your body,
it's going to tell you what it wants.
Even a pregnant woman when she's craving pickles and ice cream,
she probably needs salt,
potassium,
and calcium.
So you break down your craving into what,
what,
what's in there.
Oh,
okay.
And you can eat something else,
but it's going to give your body what it needs.
Your body can only remember where you last got it from.
So what's going to throw all these wacky things together and say,
eat chocolate bananas with raisins and uh,
you know,
some steak.
So break it down.
You need iron,
you need calcium,
you need potassium,
you know you need Niacin.
So I'll go grab it.
Do you ever have any vegetarians try to stay up there with you?
I do.
I cater to and you know,
I do Vegan,
vegetarian.
Really?
Yup.
Gluten free diabetic,
any nutrient diet other than there's some people,
there was only one group and I don't know what they call themselves,
but the,
they all will only eat something.
An apple that fell to the ground.
It has to commit aside or something.
And I'm like,
yeah,
no,
I can't do that one.
Oh My god,
people are so crazy.
Um,
it must be very difficult to get vegetables
there.
It is.
I try to do a garden every year,
but for me at my location,
um,
when I used to do the,
Oh my God,
I'm having a hard time putting her down.
Um,
this going,
it's a type of plastic,
but it has a very oily smell.
Bears are attracted to oil.
And so every time I'd make a visqueen greenhouse,
it would start going good and then the bear comes up Mirrar and terrorists it
apart.
So,
um,
and my area is much,
much,
much more volatile with the weather.
I will get snow and ice,
uh,
at least once a month.
Um,
this year I got my first big blizzard the end of the third week in August and it
never went away.
Don't care who migrated out.
And that was it.
I,
I froze up third week of August.
Yeah,
I have four or five feet of snow now.
And you know,
I've already dipped into the five,
10 below zero range,
probably 20 below zero.
With wind chill factor,
what's the lowest it ever gets up there?
My thermometer only goes to 100 below San.
I peg it every year,
you know,
and that's the real temperature.
You add some wind on top of it and it gets psycho.
Oh my God.
And then you'd start compiling that.
You're in a tent with a thin piece of fabric.
How do you keep that warm?
Yeah.
How do you keep that warrant?
The,
sometimes you're just going to have to put on the gear.
There's been times where you know the wind is your biggest enemy.
So as the winter goes on and you're building snow up the sides of the building,
I know I try to let it get six,
eight feet deep because that's a form of insulation.
But where the wind hits your fabric,
it's going to wick away the heat as quick as you can make it.
So I have bought battery operated fans to convect the air and then sometimes
you're just going to wear your winter gear for a week or two until the temps
come up.
Hundred below zero.
That's incredible.
I do this thing called cryotherapy where I step into this chamber.
It's 237 degrees below zero.
You do it naked is where your underwear,
you stand in it for three minutes,
you get out,
you back up,
and then you go back in for another three minutes and it's a,
it,
it's improving your circulation and massive for anti inflammation for any
injuries you might have.
It's incredible for like the healing properties and for soreness,
like if you're sore from working out,
just like straightens all that shit out right away.
Yeah.
But I keep,
but that's just three minutes not sleeping.
You know,
the equipment that I have,
I have a mile and a half long runway.
If somebody wants to land in the winter,
I've got to get out and work that runway.
Yeah.
How do you do that?
I have a bobcat.
I don't,
I'm not the proud owner of a piece of equipment that's all enclosed and heated.
Um,
whatever it is outside is what I'm experiencing.
So like for me to even get out on my two to three hour window,
I had to go out there,
clear it,
and then sit there for an hour and a half until boom,
the plane landed and a so Irmi my dog and I jumped in the plane and left.
Wow.
A hundred below zero in a bobcat.
What the fuck is that?
Like
it's not good.
Your face is exposed or you where you're mowing.
Yeah,
you're covering as much as you can.
Um,
I'm not the biggest fan of polypro.
It's in the end,
a plastic product and uh,
it will,
it's at a certain temperature instead of keeping you warm,
it's going to turn hard and then it's going to conduct the cold.
So I'm not a big fan of polypro.
I like natural materials for it depends on what the temperatures are.
Um,
I do have two for outfits,
one with the,
for facing in one with the,
for facing out at those temperatures are gonna wear both and you get out there
and you just get your work.
No,
the first facing in,
in the,
for facing.
And so you have like several layers of for yeah,
yeah.
I make these yourself out of bear or,
um,
usually Caribou.
Um,
and so,
uh,
and if you go back to the very first episode when the oil and everything got
stolen,
um,
a lot of my things got taken to,
so I am in the process of making new outfits.
Who stole your oil?
I'm not going to get into that,
but you know,
a person that I did find out who did it and um,
for me,
the legal battle,
you know,
so sure.
I go out and I sit down when I say,
Hey,
you took this amount of money and fuel.
Well,
they have more money than I do as a company and they're going to be able to stay
on the battle longer than I can.
So I'm going to spend four times as much to get back a little bit of money.
Well,
the north slope is a place that even if we don't live anywhere close to each
other,
word spreads like wildfire.
That company has having a hard time even getting business now because they stole
from you.
Good.
When you,
when you lose,
you know,
respect is something that is absolutely earned up there,
but it's lost so easily
do that.
And why would they steal oil from you like that?
Just because it was there and they could get away with it.
They thought they could.
Yeah.
And they did,
but you know,
and they had,
um,
it,
it people use,
now the camp is mostly ecotourism and ology.
That's a majority of the money that comes through birdwatchers northern lights
of yours.
Scientists trying to get their groove on.
But um,
August and part of September,
that's when the hunter show up.
And when I had to leave to have my surgeries shut down the camp,
this company thought,
hey,
this is a great way I can bring people in.
I don't have to pay for anything and they're going to be warm and they're going
to use the equipment.
And uh,
but I did find a bill of lading that they left behind.
They threw away their garbage.
They did not burn their garbage.
So I went through the garbage.
So,
but in the end,
what is it worth?
How long were they up there for?
I would say they ran people through for a solid month.
Wow.
Yeah.
But you know,
the,
the point is for me,
what a bunch of fucking shit heads a choice.
Do I choose to live and the negativity of that and drag myself through several
years of court over it or do I just go right beyond it?
Right.
You know,
they have to live with being a dickhead.
I've moved past it.
So you say August and September,
you have hunters up there and your camp [inaudible] and is it because of the
Caribou migration?
Yeah,
three of the major herds migrate right through camp.
Uh,
the Catholic river valley is,
if you go into the different,
um,
geologic papers,
professional papers,
even in the late 18 hundreds through the mid 19 hundreds,
um,
the Cavett river valley is very unique among the watersheds there.
My variety of plant life is far different than it is another ones.
Well,
the,
the type of liken that to Carroll etes and moss,
if they eat to gain the most fat for their journey out is right in that valley
places white stuff.
I've seen.
Yeah.
I mean this multicolored,
but yeah,
they eat Lichen and moss.
Right.
And that's where they gain their fat.
Well I have a high concentration of it in that valley,
so they want to migrate through no guarantees implied because like this year
they just lifted their collective cow heads and moved out and a really unusual
that they did.
Now looking back at it winter hit with an iron fist and hasn't left yet.
So it was a smooth move.
Somehow they knew what was coming and they left.
But yeah,
go figure that one.
But I do,
I pay attention to my plants sometime in August I start peeling the bark off the
willow if it's,
you know,
if it's easy to peel,
the plants still thinks there's going to be plenty of good,
uh,
good weather once it starts really get tough and it's sucking up to the skin
while all the SAP is being reserved in that plant's getting ready for winter.
It may be 80 degrees outside,
but the plant is telling me to get the hell ready.
So,
you know,
meteorologically speaking,
I can get on the Internet and look at the weather systems and say,
oh,
I think this was gonna happen.
But I go outside and look at my plans and my animals and I know what's going to
happen.
That's amazing.
So you could tell by just pulling the bark off of,
off of a plant.
That's right.
That tells me that those plants are getting ready for whether that I may not be
thinking is coming,
but they do.
That's amazing.
How the fuck they know.
I don't know.
Wiley and dollar question.
They know.
And the Caribou,
no,
everything knows all of the sudden like there was one year and all the bears
rather than like they,
they'll dig their dens into the side of the bank and when the water starts to
rise,
it comes in and wakes him up in a bear's favorite food is cub.
So the Boers wake up,
the male bears usually first and they run around finding other dens and eat the
cubs.
Yeah.
Um,
but then one year,
all of a sudden the bears came up and about 3000 foot level,
2000 foot level started digging dens and I'm like,
I called a fish and game and I'm like,
wow,
what the hell is up with that?
You know,
and nobody's ever there but me.
So I'm like,
dude,
I,
I see this going on and what's happening?
And they said,
I don't know,
but all the bears and the ones that are collared,
they're all moving up.
And I was like,
Oh shit.
So I tried to get everything set up in camp because that usually means an
excessively high amount of snow,
which means an excessive amount of water and flooding in the spring.
So I tried to get everything ready by watching what they're doing.
I can set camp up differently to be protected from a flood in the spring.
That is amazing.
That is so amazing that they know that an excessive amount of snow is coming.
How they figure it,
who knows?
But they,
they will adjust and readjust their actions,
you know,
based on something that they feel.
Why can adjust what I do based on what I see.
That's so bizarre.
I want to go up there now.
We'll get up there.
I want to go up there.
I want to come up there and hunt Caribou up there in August,
September.
That's the time.
What I tell people,
I mean I cannot guide without a license,
but um,
I can,
I can look at trends sometime between August in the middle of September.
That's when they're going to be there.
Now it opens up in July or hunting season goes from July through July.
But you know,
for so many months out of the year they're down south having a vacation in
[inaudible].
Right.
So you have a 12 month hunting.
See it's just open all year round.
Pretty much the,
uh,
the animals depending on the species are our hunting season starts in July of
any year and then goes through the winter.
And depending on the species,
you have to give shutdown the season so that the animals can give birth and
raise new babies.
They have to have a safety zone,
but in July it opens up again.
Wow.
So when you shoot these bears,
like when a bear comes in,
do you,
are you eating these things?
Yeah.
Spring bear is always,
yeah.
Then fall bear,
um,
the Gamey taste if you will,
is more concentrated in the fat.
A brown bear from down south is eating a lot of fish diet and you are what you
eat.
So it's a very fishy tasting product.
I don't care for that.
Um,
bought up by me.
I like to tell people that the bears eat berries and slow tourists,
so I'm cool,
you know?
But yeah,
the bear that I got,
um,
what you don't see in that episode is,
you know,
I,
I shoot the bear,
I make sure he's gone.
It was a,
it was an emotional thing,
but I start skinning him and I start getting the meat.
I got about 300 pounds of meat off of a mall.
Here's another bear,
another grizzly start circling in and getting real tight.
So we had the four wheelers,
I brought him up and the boom,
the fog came down.
It went totally dark.
And so now you can't see.
So the safety dude for the films was there with his weapon and a,
we put the headlights all out and you'd see this bear come in and sideswiped the
four wheelers.
Well after 300 pounds of meat and getting,
you know,
harvesting the for,
I just had to say,
it's time for me to back off the bear can munch on this,
which will buy me the time.
Get away.
It's where the bears are.
Such cannibals opportunists.
Yeah.
Oh,
I'm sure they don't look and say,
Oh wow,
that was Marty.
You know,
it's just an opportunity to fill their beaks and it's survival at its basic.
The cub thing though was really creepy.
It is.
Um,
I don't know.
I don't know what started that with bears,
but,
uh,
I mean,
it's a sure bet in an area where the Caribou may not have migrated out early
enough and when the bears wake up,
they're fairly sluggish.
They walk around like drunkards.
Their muscles are atrophied and there's not a lot of food,
but it's a sure bet that the mothers with cubs tend to wake up later.
So they just go in,
dig it out.
And it's an opportunity for food still
so,
so crazy that an animal would almost instinctively and naturally cannibalize
it is,
you know,
I mean from a human's perspective it's,
it's,
it's a little creepy,
but from an animal perspective,
if you want to survive,
you're going to find what foods are available.
Mm.
But it seems like they're one of the rare animals that cannibalizes on a regular
basis.
Like that is,
that's a stakeholder.
If you've ever had a kid that had a dribble as a pet.
Oh,
that's true.
Yeah,
I actually had hamsters and then they ate two babies.
We had a watch it and we're like,
what the fuck?
But they,
they had a disease though called wet tail that something to some disease at
hamsters get when the babies get a disease,
the mother will eat the baby.
But you know,
our cute little hamster that we love was just challen on its baby's head.
And I,
it was like an open coconut and I was like,
what the fuck is wrong with fluffy?
Jesus Christ was bloody mass inside the hamster cage.
But I think that was more,
like I said,
because the,
the,
they were sick.
It wasn't like she was really hungry.
She had played a hamster food.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know either.
I'm just guessing.
But it's just,
it's one of the weird things about bears like bears particularly that they will,
they will survive at any cost.
And they actually,
as you said,
they actually go out looking for the cubs as one of the things that sound
got early.
And Marty actually the bear that I mentioned earlier,
she is old enough that she acts a lot like a bore a bar as a male bear and a
silo as a female and a old as she is.
She has,
she digs her downs where she's going to get hit with the water to wake her up
first and she'll do the same thing.
Wow.
She'll go out looking for cubs.
Yup.
Whoa.
Jesus.
When I was in Alberta,
the,
uh,
the camp that I was at,
the guy who was there,
this
Guy John,
his son,
saw a bear,
killed the cub,
kill this,
attack this female,
kill the cub,
and then,
uh,
ate half of it left and the female came back and ate the rest of her cub.
Yeah.
And he was like,
wow,
that's a first.
I've never seen one eat their own cub,
but I guess wanted,
it's dead.
It just becomes me.
Ooh.
Yeah.
We watched these bears go at it too.
It was crazy watching these like ultimate fighting championship of bears.
They just started going to battle because the mail kept trying to come into camp
and the female was send her,
bear her cubs up the tree and try to chase off the mail.
And he would deal with it for a little bit and they would come back in and then
they would start,
started fighting and they were standing on two legs and going at it.
Yeah.
It's amazing to see.
Even the wolves or the Wolverines,
no.
You know,
I'm going to have seen a wolverine now and when I say Wolverine,
yeah,
they're a,
they're like a badger.
Mine are about three and a half,
four foot at the shoulders,
120 pounds.
But I've seen them take on grizzlies and come out on top.
That's a big [inaudible] right as some of the wolverines up by me and even the
wolves,
they're considered to have the,
they call it a throwback to the Mackenzie river breed and they're averaging
about 200,
250 pounds.
The wolves.
Yeah.
I used to have state record for the state of Alaska on a trapped wolf.
Uh,
it was nine foot,
six inches,
nose to tail.
And I had it in Calvic,
you know,
a dining home foot,
six inches.
Wolves I'm dealing with are not these little tiny Shitzu things,
you know,
they are shit sue.
Wow,
that's crazy.
And you get in like a pack of 20 plus that are that are actually taking out a
bear.
Yeah.
Usually a wolf.
Will they adjust their pack size according to how much food there is an
opportunity.
There is,
well there is enough by me that they've actually,
they never split the pack.
They are still an,
I used to say 21 and then the people that do the air censuses,
you know,
he called in and he says,
hey sue,
it's sandy here.
You know you always,
you always say 21 wolves and I'm like,
yeah,
so what is it 18 it looks like 21 to me and he says no,
22 plus pups and I'm like,
Ooh nieces.
Yeah,
they've actually dug a permanent den now,
which is unusual.
They follow their food source.
So to dig a permanent den shows me that my ecosystem is changing enough that the
wolf's feel they need,
they can stake a territory and stay there.
Wow.
It's not just everything migrates out,
you follow it,
it comes back in,
you follow it.
They feel that there is now a good enough food source that they can stay year
round and one yeah
place.
Besides the time where they chase the bear and the bear brushed up against the
tents and you know,
they took 'em out.
How close do they get to you?
Pretty close.
Um,
back when I first started at Calvic,
you know,
uh,
it was set up differently,
different buildings,
everything,
but the desk was in the dining hall.
I used to live in a corner of the dining hall.
And so you have a window out here on the wooden end cap and I'm doing the stuff
for work.
And he had just had a feeling something was behind you and I turn around and I'm
nose to nose with the big black wolf has had,
was stuffed right through the window.
So I go to reach the gun and he just slipped down and ran.
So he kind of had a feeling that you were going to shoot him?
Um,
or new?
He just needed to get the hell out.
Yeah.
I was,
uh,
I was doing a shady moves so he needed to get out,
but I don't know how long he was back there and he certainly could have chewed
me up,
but he was as curious about me as I was about him.
And it seems like if they're making a Dan and having cut,
they probably have a steady supply of food.
Yeah,
feral now,
you know,
am I on that food group?
Probably.
Do they normally go?
Oh yeah,
let's find a city and start attacking people.
No,
but I'm not a city.
I'm an individual.
So,
um,
but like when my granddaughter,
when she first came up there to visit and she was six,
five or six and every time she got more than 10 foot away here out of the river
bank,
the big gray wolf would starts Lincoln.
So I had to tie a rope from her to me and she couldn't get more than 10 foot
away and which frustrated her.
So I took her for a walk down to the Old Fox den where the little babies were
and all of the little bodies are there and bones are there and,
and the wolf had gotten in and eaten them.
And uh,
she was all bummed out and I turned around to walk.
Now we had not even two minutes there.
And here's a wolf track about this big and I have a picture of her hand next to
it and it was right in her footprint.
And I said,
okay.
And she says,
he is stalking me.
And then I said,
yeah,
so what does that tell you?
I said,
where is he right now?
And then her eyes got big and all she sees his brush and I said,
yeah,
we need to get the hell out of here.
You are a Scooby snack and you're carrying a gun the entire time.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
You don't go anywhere without a gun?
Nope.
And when the kids get up there,
you know,
I,
I teach them with little weapons first.
You know,
they get a four 10 shotgun and a 22 single action and they learn gun safety.
And then like my grandson this year,
he came up and for the first time he got to take down a couple of Caribou and
feed his family.
You know,
I helped him prepare the meat and he took it back down south.
So my granddaughter though,
you know,
that's the difference in,
um,
I have to celebrate who she is,
not who I am when I'm with her.
And after her first year there,
you know,
I ask her is I was bringing her home,
um,
and I said,
Oh,
you're gonna come up and visit,
you know,
Nathan,
my grandson,
he's all boo ya about coming back.
And I said,
so do you want to come back up and see grandma?
And she said,
well grandma,
you know,
I love you,
right?
And I'm like,
yeah.
And she says,
but I'm going to go visit uncle Jesse and amp Megan cause they do Manny Petty's
and they like to shop
for her.
She's,
she's a girly girl.
Anything sparkly,
shiny and pink is on her hit list.
So,
uh,
I told her,
I said,
well,
okay,
you can't bomb out at your,
your brother when he gets to come up.
But uh,
when I do take a break,
I'll,
I'll hook you up,
we'll go to Laughlin and uh,
we'll go get big ass sunglasses during virgin my ties and go shopping for
dresses and get many Petty's.
So I have to celebrate who she is,
not necessarily who I am or who I think she should.
Good for yourself.
Now you live in a place that doesn't
have any trees.
Why?
Why is that?
Just because
above the tree line,
is it the,
is that because it's just gets too cold?
The weather is too harsh.
Yeah.
I don't have soil.
There is no soil.
You have ice permanently frozen ground.
You have rocks on top of that.
Maybe a little silt.
But that's a round rock cell does around rock.
It's not soil.
And so it's very difficult for things to grow.
And with the growing season in the cold temperatures,
things grow very slowly.
So it's just a,
it's not a climate that trees can grow in.
So this is an incredibly inhospitable environment to a lot of animals.
So why do animals live up there?
Like what?
What keeps them coming back?
No matter where you are on the planet,
whether it be a form of bacteria,
look at an asteroid,
you've got bacteria and viruses,
a grill.
Why?
Who knows?
Life finds a way.
Wow.
And life finds a way 200 miles above the arctic circle.
I just,
I mean it's,
I have a hard time.
I just don't understand what compels you to choose that isolation when you can
choose an isolation more like in an area where you maybe have more trees and you
know,
you can,
that may be one of my next steps.
I mean when I want a softer,
easier way of life,
I'll go downwards.
There's trees
softer and easier is to live in the forest.
So hilarious.
And now how the hell did they find you for this TV show?
I'm the creator of this show also created on another show called Flying Wild
Alaska.
And uh,
I use those pilots to fly for me.
And so I appeared on a couple of those episodes.
Sarah Pale and also did a show and she came out there to hunt and I'm,
no,
I already had a family out there at the time.
It was very early in the hunting season,
not a lot of animals around.
So I flung her in a little plane further out because I had an eight and a 10
year old girl that we're hunting for the first time out there.
And so,
but they had seen me do these other shows.
So when he created the life below zero concept,
he called and he says,
I've got this idea,
do you want to do it?
And they came out and I said,
well,
I never do anything scripted,
period.
I don't want to hear how you think would look cool and go do it yourself.
I mean,
there's enough natural stuff that happens.
That's what we stick to.
And that's what the show does is it's,
um,
I mean if we swear and go psycho,
I mean that shows it on TV.
If we pooch it and don't stock enough of something,
well it's going to show that,
um,
or if you get hurt or whatever.
Um,
so anyways,
they did the sizzle reel and I asked me and I said,
all right,
and as long as you don't ever ask me to do something stupid,
you know.
Did you have any reservations about exposing yourself like this,
about putting yourself on television and about showing this lifestyle?
I don't have any reservations about showing what I do.
Um,
there are some things,
you know,
privacy is privacy and I do expect a certain amount of it and I'm certainly,
I,
I treasure my alone time so I can,
I can sometimes get an attitude about sharing that.
Um,
there is a trade off,
you know,
for me doing the show and the,
and the premise that it does it on.
One of the cool things for me is,
you know,
sooner or later my number's going to be up,
all I've looked all over,
there's no expiration date I can find.
I just simply know what's coming.
Now.
I may not ever get to meet my great grandchildren,
but if they want to know who I was,
pop in a DVD,
they see who I really was,
not who they thought I was.
So that's a pretty cool tradeoff for me.
Occasionally there,
there is some unique territory that comes with
being in a social setting.
There are go to some of these sites and you know,
I've had people send me emails,
why don't you just die?
I hope a bear does each you,
um,
you know,
it's like,
oh thanks.
You know,
whenever people have access,
just any kind of access to people,
there's going to be a certain amount of shit are going to do for me.
There's far more people that are positive,
curious,
and it's cool to touch this kind of a lifestyle.
You know,
some people romanticize the grizzly Adams thing and this is a way for them to
experience it without having to actually outrun a bear.
Yeah,
yeah.
That's how I feel about that show.
I don't have a desire to live a subsistence lifestyle,
but I,
I really enjoy watching all these guys do it and you do it and we,
you're the very,
you're very different than anybody else on the show because everybody else in
the show,
they live in a place where there's like woods and they have a house and like
you,
like I said,
you're the gangster of the gangsters.
Like they're all pretty gangster.
They're all like,
you know,
there's the wine,
there's a unique set of challenges for each and every group.
Yeah.
It's just such a weird way to live life and I think there's a trend that's going
on right now.
We're a lot of people feel a bit disenchanted with urban life.
And if you've seen the Werner Herzog documentary happy people,
no,
it's called happy people life on the taiga a year and the tiger,
the Tiger River in Siberia.
And it's about these guys who are just hunters and trappers and they live,
uh,
this subsistence lifestyle in Siberia and they're incredibly happy.
Yeah.
They're always joking around and smiling and laughing and,
okay.
And that's one thing maybe on the series you don't get to see.
Um,
I'm a really big goofball and I left La and I dance a lot and I just do by
herself though.
Yeah.
There's a,
there's a lot of footage because every time they do a timelapse I,
oh,
what are you doing?
Oh man,
it's been done for a little while.
We're just letting it run out while I go out there and I do these songs and
dances and,
um,
there's one really good video that they did and uh,
but you know,
I swear too much so I can't go on the air.
But,
um,
you don't do an Internet version.
Yeah,
yeah.
Put a uncensored clips,
give it a little warning.
So,
you know,
when you're clicking on it,
I'm,
I'm pretty goofy.
It's like me,
you know,
for the hunting sequence,
because you know,
for me,
any of us,
when we go out hunting and there's a camera right behind you,
you know,
the very first episodes were learning experiences for us all.
You know,
I'm out there trying to get the Ptarmigan and they're all flying away,
flying away and I'm,
you know,
bitches,
what the hell are they doing?
Well,
I turned around,
here's the six foot something guy in a bright blue outfit going,
dude,
there are no six foot blueberries in the winter out here.
Can you write it and get it down?
You know,
but,
and so we've all learned,
um,
but sell for the hunting sequence,
me and my hilarity,
you know,
I went and got Cornish game hens and,
uh,
you know,
what kind of a trail do they leave?
You know,
big sludge in the thing.
So I have this whole thing,
where are they found on the shelf?
So I did this whole hilarious sequence of a,
you know,
hunting the Cornish hens and uh,
but you know,
I mean,
all of us have a unique set of challenges.
Part of the challenge is still being in love with your lifestyle.
At the end of the day,
there's just,
I think the cure to this sort of aimless life that a lot of people find
themselves in when they're stuck in a cubicle,
they're working for a company,
the end of the day,
they just go to sleep to get up again.
They have to do it all over again.
It doesn't feel like they're connected to what they're doing or they,
it doesn't feel like they have a passion for what they're doing.
And then they see people that are live in the subsistence lifestyle and it has
this romantic quality to it.
The sort of,
yeah.
Well,
you know,
the society today,
both people are going to have to go out and work.
They're going to have to work a lot of hours and not raising their own children
and they're eking out enough money just to pay the electric and the water.
And do it all over again.
Are you living life or are you just getting through it?
And is that the fault of the government?
Is that the,
you know,
I mean,
are you overgoverned I mean,
where is the break?
Where's the profit margin on the company's gonna fall down short enough so that
the money a family makes you get your two weeks vacation and you go play in the
woods with your kids.
Right now,
people can't do that.
So I think these shows go look,
you know,
there's people we're governed by the same law or just a little lawless about it.
Yeah.
I think the over competitive nature of a lot of people is led us to all agree to
this really ridiculous life where you were working 50 plus hours a week and you
don't really have a life outside of work.
Well,
I can't imagine having to set my alarm clock and punch a clock for somebody else
anymore.
You know,
I don't even,
while I know I own a watch,
I don't know where I put it.
I lost it a few years ago.
Um,
but for me in the winter,
you know,
I know when I get my first sunset again in late August,
I know I'm about a month before.
I don't see people.
And then I don't even worry about the clock.
I wake up when I'm not tired.
I go to sleep when I'm tired.
If I'm hungry,
I eat.
Um,
if I don't accept expend a lot of calories than I'm not hungry,
I don't take it in.
What do you do to attain yourself all throughout the,
the dead of the winter.
Um,
snow is the gift that keeps giving.
You can always dig and move snow.
Uh,
try to keep the paths open.
You know,
the outhouse was a quarter mile away from where I'm at.
When you've got to go,
you need to,
you know,
wait a minute,
Lord forbid you get the trots cause you got a long way to go when you punk could
be in a blizzard.
Wait a minute,
your outhouse is a quarter of a mile away for over a mile away from my door.
That's insane.
Yeah.
So every time you go you have to go a quarter mile.
Yup.
That's,
I mean,
I,
when nobody's there,
I mean I can just go outside,
drop my doors and take care of business.
Right.
You can get a five gallon bucket and do it there.
Cause he was watching.
I can walk around naked all day long and the windows open.
You know what I mean?
If that's what I wanna do.
Um,
but I'm setting the tone of my life,
not somebody else.
Why is the outhouse so far?
Well they can,
I'm not allowed it to protect it ecosystem.
I can't dig a hole in the ground or have you going it because human waste is
considered potentially hazardous.
People take chemicals,
I take drugs,
they do whatever.
So it has to be in a bin that has collected,
which I then have to separate the solids and the liquids and burn it to its
lowest dash.
It can have an odor that some people don't like.
Therefore you don't want it right next to the dining hall.
But a quarter mile is really far.
Not when the next cities 500 miles away.
It's all relative.
Right.
But when it's a hundred below zero,
then I can always grab a bucket and do it in your pocket.
Yeah,
I mean you just adjust your own lifestyle.
And did you don't mind the summer walking a hundred you know whenever it is,
how many hundred yards,
how many hundred yards is a quarter mile mile?
Well,
a quarter of a mile is 5,000 and chump change.
So you got what?
1200 to 1500 that you're going to go with a solid 500 yards.
Yeah,
you're wrong.
I don't mind that.
Why would I?
I got a leg can and on,
you know something jumps out at me.
I'm going to jump out a leg.
Cannon.
Yeah.
What do you do?
Like a 44 magnum.
So I've got a couple of 44 MAG,
so I'm have shorter
a barrel,
some have longer barrels and I just got a four 54 pistol.
So with a chest harness there's something I'm going to be doing here in the near
future where I felt I needed something a little bigger,
a little closer to the chest because I'm going to need hands free.
Okay.
Well,
what are you doing?
I can't tell you.
Is that part of the show?
Yes.
Okay.
Well I'll tune in and I'll watch.
I'll learn from that.
Do you,
do you anticipate like,
do you have a plan of like how long you want to stay in this place or you just
merely like by your feelings?
For me personally,
no,
I don't plan.
Uh,
you know,
when I,
like I say Raven personality,
there may be something awesome that I find out about her I see or I want to do.
Or maybe I want to go gold panning for a while.
I don't limit myself.
My,
my vision is my own,
not anybody else's,
but because I am only there through the grace of having a lease with the state
and a profitable business,
if that turns around or the state or anybody else says,
look,
there's been a land swap and it's no longer owned by the state.
These people don't want you there.
It may be out of my control when I leave.
So,
and that's something that,
you know,
I have to reconcile.
I'm also not a spring chicken.
Not that I'm the crypt keeper,
but my age and my body is starting to wear down,
so need to read the signs.
Right.
You know,
I mean life happens.
What if I,
what if I can't see well anymore then hunting my own meat probably didn't going
to be real successful.
Uh,
what if I break another couple of bones in my body?
I just had some more foot surgery.
I've got to have the feet work down again from when I broke them.
Um,
I had a difficult time walking this summer,
so I had one procedure done and I'm going to have a couple of more.
What if that doesn't come back?
Are the bones just did the heel and
I have a lot of scar tissue.
The tendons reacted poorly.
Um,
the a level of pain.
I mean,
I did it for a while,
but I was barely,
you know,
walking.
So,
so they did,
I went down just to see the doctor.
He ended up doing surgery on both feet.
Um,
so that was kind of a trip,
but a,
he wants to do some more procedures to try and help the situation.
If it doesn't get better,
I have to change what I'm doing.
And then you also have the downtime after surgery.
We can't do anything.
No,
I didn't take downtime.
I couldn't afford it,
so I just dealt with it.
Wow.
Um,
this time I'm going to try to give myself two or three days of downtime,
but life keeps happening whether I like it to or not,
I can't let all of the chores go.
Um,
I have to,
whether I like it or hate it,
I have to keep fueling my heat tank.
If I don't have fuel or oil in the heat tank,
I don't have heat.
Um,
the longest I've gone without heat up there as two months and I just copied up
in all my winter gear and waited for a funeral every two months.
And I told him of the year was this,
that was in January,
February.
The coldest time for us and it was not pleasant and I didn't enjoy it.
Um,
and I don't necessarily ever want to do it again if I have to.
I have to,
but,
um,
I,
I don't want to,
but you don't know what's going to be thrown at you.
What if,
uh,
what if a blizzard sends something,
you know,
somebody dropped a pop can on the Tundra and I don't know about it.
In a 8,000 mile an hour breeze,
that's going to become a missile that might take out my tent.
So I have to have several places,
another tent that I can go to and live in that gets taken out a trailer that I
can live in the cameras down,
get to those tents.
So you have to be able to make our tasks,
but to get through the eight foot deep snow,
you tie ropes,
you can tie it to the roof line,
you can tie it to the bottom
and you wear snowshoes and just walk on the top of it.
Uh,
you know when,
when an emergency happens,
you don't get to pick what you're wearing.
But I don't get through eight foot deepest snow though.
It depends on the type of snow.
If it's hard pack,
you walk on top of it,
it fits.
Softy swim.
Wow.
So swim through the snow.
How much has changed since you've been doing this television show?
I mean it,
has the attention of the show changed your lifestyle in any way?
Has it changed how you interact with the people that are coming into your camp?
Um,
no.
I mean I am who I am.
Uh,
you know,
I smoke cigars,
we'll single malt and,
and a swear a lot.
Um,
it doesn't change who I,
the basic needs of the camp are set.
Now,
some people,
I don't have a lot of people that come in just because of the show.
Kavach is extremely remote.
The dollar value it takes to get to me precludes some people from being able to
do it.
Um,
it has to be some crazy dude out there that's in love with you.
They're watching the show there.
Is that what you're getting?
That's Miguel.
Yeah,
there was a,
there was one that showed up this year and I actually,
for a couple of years I've been trying to set up,
you know,
and it was,
bringing the family out to hunt,
whatever.
And then it was like,
oh,
they can't make it.
Can I still come out?
Well yeah,
it's going to cost this much,
you know,
assign their room to him.
I'm busy working and come in and this person had moved into,
I call my personal building the twinkie.
It's long,
yellow and filled with goodness.
Right?
So I come in and here's this dude laying in my bed and uh,
has decided that,
you know,
we're in love and,
and he had his old thing going on in his head and he got very upset when I told
them to get the hell out and he laid hands on me,
but as hands here and was holding the knife,
so I had the gun on my hip and put it in his dress and said,
you just brought a knife to a gunfight.
You lose.
So I had military people,
some of the seals were there and they held the guy,
I called the plain and kicked him out.
Just kick them out.
Yeah.
Why don't you feed them to a bear?
Seems like that would be the best way to get rid of him.
I wouldn't want that.
I've got coming back.
No,
no.
Well,
all of the money,
all of the Bush companies have a known all list and they know this person or
that person or this,
nobody flies in unless they ask me.
Right.
And then,
and the troopers know that.
Should I feel threatened?
I,
I'm not going to shoot for the knee caps.
I'm going to take them out.
Does anybody keep tabs in this fella?
I don't know.
That's a bad human being.
And she just fed them to the Paris.
Uh,
you know,
that's not my,
my Gig is just getting them out.
Yeah.
You know,
um,
it was a,
it's like anything you neutralize the threat kick 'em out,
chances are,
um,
I mean,
they got to live with themselves and they're probably not gonna want to
embarrass themselves again.
So people have an amazing ability to distort reality in their head to the point
where it's not living with themselves the rest of the world.
Yeah.
I get interested in email sometimes and,
uh,
men in prison seem to find me awfully sexy.
Um,
and none of them,
they're all innocent.
I'll tell you that much that they're like,
if I just get out,
I could live with her.
There's one,
he's done 27 years of four consecutive life sentences for killing his wives.
He didn't do it.
How many wives?
Four wives.
He told all four of them that well,
he didn't do it.
He's been frame,
but clearly he and I belonged together and uh,
whenever,
you know,
it's a Oh
Mariam and I think you'd be good in all conjugal visits.
Probably not going to happen.
Yeah,
no,
don't marriage to say,
listen,
you seem to be killing wives.
Yeah.
Key this relationship.
Let's just keep the topic.
Do you,
you know,
you could do your own show like really easily,
like,
you know mean I enjoy the,
the show life below zero.
But you're such a powerful personality.
It's all,
I mean,
I guarantee you there's a lot of people that are just like,
fuck all the rest of these people.
I want to find out what Sue's up to all day.
Can you just such a,
you were very rare human.
Got It.
That's probably a good thing for some people that you're rare.
Yeah,
well,
I dunno,
why not?
We can be all right with a bunch of you are running around me.
It probably wouldn't happen.
But you know,
if you thought about doing your own version or an a another show that just kind
of entirely focuses on you,
you know,
that's not something I would think about.
Um,
that would be something that a network might present.
They must be like,
can get you and realizing that this is this incredible personality that's
attached to it.
I know you probably don't like to think about yourself that way.
No,
I like,
you know,
people say there are some people,
it's like,
oh my gosh,
you're a star.
And I go,
no,
I'm just a fat chick.
You know,
living on the tone.
Right.
You know,
I mean,
don't put yourself on a pedestal unless you like falling from high places.
Sooner or later.
A honey booboo is around the corner and you're done.
So if you put yourself on a pedestal,
that's a pretty big job,
you know?
Yeah,
no,
I,
I agree.
But I just think,
you know,
you obviously enjoy some aspects of being on the show.
Otherwise he would have told them to fuck off.
I do occasionally,
you know,
we all go through our diva moments.
Um,
do kick them out sometimes
we have butted heads a few times and,
um,
I have,
I call it putting them in timeout and I just locked myself in the,
in the twinkie and I don't,
you know,
um,
but they've,
they've been very,
very respectful.
Occasionally.
It's
okay,
too much social time for me and I have to,
I have to get my alone time just to get it back in perspective.
And how much
time did they spend filming?
Do they only come in the summer or the only there for a couple months out of the
year?
No,
throughout the year.
Because if you notice there are winner episodes and then there were a summer
episodes.
So throughout the year,
um,
they're very respectful.
They call and they say,
Hey,
what are you up to for?
I don't know until like,
you know,
from now until the 25th of November,
well,
I'm going to do this,
this and this and this is going to happen and fuck,
I didn't get that done.
Well,
Hey,
do you think we can come and cover this and this and this?
And I'll go,
no,
I want to do this by myself cause I might bonehead it.
Don't need that Andre on the air.
But um,
you know,
I go,
yeah,
we can do this.
That'd be cool.
Yeah,
you can tag along.
And so they're,
they're respectful of asking me,
what am I doing?
Do I mind having company and,
and let's get it together.
So there's no real set shooting schedule.
It's essentially just like decide,
let's say Kate and Andy may be doing something,
you know,
everybody else's location is vastly different
temperatures and,
and you know,
than I am.
I,
I'm,
I'm way up there.
Right.
So my winter is much,
much longer.
Um,
my freeze up is much,
much different.
Um,
they may break up before I do.
So,
I mean,
we all have to be given the respect of our individual areas and,
and the show does that.
That's amazing.
Well,
listen,
you gotta get Outta here,
know you get some other stuff to do with,
thank you so much for doing this.
I really appreciate it.
I really enjoy you on the show and I just think you're awesome.
Thank you so much.
Love talking to you.
Okay.
Thanks so much for the Caribbean.
I would love to,
and everybody you could follow,
sue,
she's on Twitter.
It's sue Akins on Twitter,
and the show is also on Twitter,
life below zero t.
V.
Thank you so much.
That was awesome.
Okay.